Hi welcome back in this video we're going to be looking at cleaning up some of the code and if that
sounds boring please don't consider cleaning up code is boring.
It is a work of art.
Now that we are able to get to the stage where we can clean up the code we're turning our code from
something ugly and cumbersome and slow to something that is actually readable maintainable manageable
pretty even.
Now you may think I'm a nerd because I'm saying those sort of things but the truth is nobody likes code
that looks like this.
It is horrible.
And I myself when I was planning this course I was thinking about how to introduce to you clean code
.
And I thought I'm going to make calls as horrible as I can.
So then you can realize how important it is to have clean code.
Now hopefully that isn't putting you off and you're seeing this in your thinking.
I never want to do any of this.
But what we're going to be doing now is cleaning up.
We've made it work.
And that is should always be the first step before worrying about scalability performance of prettiness
.
Cleanliness maybe not so much the last two but before worrying about those things too much.
Make sure that you can actually get something that works because if your code is pretty but doesn't
work then it's not very useful.
OK.
However don't forget to make your code maintain.
I've written a few comments here which explain some things about the code.
Man that's also nice to include and that is going to make the refactoring the cleaning up a bit easier
.
Now let's think about the objects we've got and what belongs in each object object in oriented programming
remember is using these classes and object oriented programming was invented to speed up and simplify
the development process object under programming.
Makes programs go slower.
That's just the way it is.
But it is a lot better for us developers.
It makes things much quicker for us to understand.
So let's go to the log in Doppie Wi-Fi.
This is our main application.
This is essentially what our app does it logged in with Twitter and then retrieve some images right
.
I'm going to start at the bottom because I think that's where we should start.
And I'm going to explain why as we can see we've got a consumer that we're using there and that's just
our Twitter app.
All other things around here are dependent on the user as opposed to the app.
So the user has an oil token the user has an auto can secret.
The request we're doing is on behalf of the user using that authorized client.
Essentially we are pretending to be the user doing this request and I think that means where it is that
tells me that this code should probably be in the User class just because it kind of is the user doing
the request even though it's obviously not it is our code to request but it's pretending to be the user
.
It should probably be in the User class.
So let's go into the user Doppie file and create a method that will perform a request.
Now.
What to call it Twitter underscore request and let's go back to the log file and see what we need for
a request.
The request we're doing here is to the search API and we are just performing this request here as a
get right.
Most of the requests we're going to be doing the Twitter API are going to be get requests but they may
not be they may be post.
So what we need is the you or I that we are requesting and the verb that we want to be using.
So let's go into the user and hearsay.
You are right.
OK.
We need this token object and we need this client in order to create the client we need a consumer.
So that's also going to be something required and we are going to die.
OK.
Let's now copy all of that and paste it in here.
Show what we're doing is first creating the uprights token which uses these users off talking.
So now instead of use a dot author can we can do self self-taught also can suffer or so in secret.
And now it's this user that is doing the request and not an arbitrary user instead of this we can now
put the parameter to the method.
You are right.
And instead of get we can put the verb.
This is still fine.
Now at the end we don't want to return None none remember is a default.
We want to do is return content not encode UTF 8
but we still need to use both too.
So we are going to have to import that.
OK and now we've got you and I.
The verbum the consumer.
Let's look at the consumer list let's get with the consumer ease the consumer is just essentially to
Constance.
That's where the consumer is is the consumer and the consumer secret which are stored in our constant
dot file.
I'm going to copy this consumer going to the Constans file and look at what we've got here is just a
couple of strings really.
And then a few more strings this consumer maybe doesn't belong in the log in the IPY file.
Maybe the consumer should be reusable throughout the entire application and it shouldn't be passed as
a parameter to the Twitter request maybe the user should have access to this consumer.
So let's create the consumer in a different file and import it into here.
Well we're going to do is say from
Twitter utils import consumer and then we're going to go into a project you file Twitter and you tell
us and say consumer is not import or to import Constans.
So now this consumer is in portable from there it means we don't need to pass it in as a parameter.
We can just get it from that file.
And the reason we're doing that is because that consumer is never going to change.
It's always the same thing it's always just the consumer and the consumer secret.
So it doesn't really make sense to pass it as a parameter when we might as well just be some sort of
globally available variable.
It's not like it matters to pass it to some and not to others.
It's always going to be the same.
That means we no longer needed them.
And is there a way we can do is from Twitter utils import consumer and then we can use that there.
OK.
And now what that means is that instead of all of this
we can just delete all that and put in here.
I'm actually going to go back in time and copy this strings so I don't have to go and find it again
.
OK.
And now we can do it now we can delete all that and instead of content the code UTF 8 we're going to
a user don't put request and do that in there.
And the verb is going to be.
Do you now see how this has suddenly become simpler because we have a few users doing the same thing
.
We don't need to rewrite code we just use use or not Twitter or request something as I don't like is
that the majority of the time we're going to be doing get requests.
And yet we still have to pass in get as our verb let's not passing get as a verb and instead have that
as the default value for the parameter a parameter.
In Python can have the default value and what that means is that passing a value when you call the method
will be optional.
And if you don't pass one it will use the default value of the method of the method definition.
So we can do that.
Verb equals get up here means that this argument by default is going to get the value of the string
get.
And when we go back to the log in my final page and doesn't tell us that we have something missing anymore
it just accepts this is valid OK.
So now we are able to do this which simplifies our code a bit.
However we still have to do.
Jason mood's all responses from Twitter are going to be in Jason format so we might as well move the
Jason Doll loads over to the user as well.
Let's go into uder and down here returned Jason downloads and we're going to have to import that.
And now we are returning a Jason File sorry adjacent string.
It's actually a dictionary instead of just a string.
If we go back to our loggin file we no longer need to import just an IP.
And now that's a lot nicer these user that has authorized our apt to use Twitter now can perform a request
and I think that makes sense makes sense for the user to be able to perform requests on his own.
Now the next things that we should be cleaning up or to do with this registration we could put these
methods to register inside the user class.
So let's go back into the user and I'm going to create a method called Get request token
and the get request token.
The only thing it has to do is get this request token down here.
So I'm just going to do this.
Copy all that.
Put that in there.
And I'm going to replace that by return.
So that's going to return the X the request token.
And here I'm going to have to import the constants or import constants of them.
And I'm also going to have to import you RL parts so I'm going to go up here and copy that and import
your parts.
So now the user can get a request token for himself which means that this request token no longer needs
to equal all the stuff.
Now it can just equal user don't get request token.
Now this is not the best way to go about things and you may realize why it is maybe not the best way
to go about things.
I've gone quickly in putting this code in here.
But that doesn't mean it is the best way.
Have a think about why it may not be the best way to put this code here and think about Norton.
Will it work better.
Will it not work but rather in does it make sense for this code.
Getting a request token to be there.
And how does that affect the user object.
If it does at all.
Now I hope you have a chance to think about it maybe pause the video and think about it but it gives
you a hint which is method get request Hawken may be static.
That means that we're not using self.
And really what we're doing in this method is essentially asking Twitter to generate a number and then
when returning that number it doesn't have anything to do with a user at all.
So maybe it shouldn't be the user.
Let's accept that.
Let's cut all that and then go into a Twitter utility file and put it in there instead.
Then let's go back into a user file.
Caught those imports and put them in there as well.
Now I think this makes a bit more sense now to get a request token should be part of some sort of Twitter
connection utility as opposed to the user because the user doesn't really care about the request token
all the user cares about is the access token.
Remember.
OK that means that instead of use user don't get request token which no longer exists.
Now we need to import get requests token from Twitter Eutelsat and we can just use that.
No it's going to give us a dictionary.
Now keep
Now we're printing to go to the site in your browser then we're getting the oil for verifying.
And finally we are creating a request token and then we're setting the verifier and we're using that
to get the access to the Access talk and could potentially be in the user.
But I'm not sure that makes sense until we've seen that in the use.
So all of this stuff should really be sorry all of that stuff should really be inside Twitter utilize
.
OK.
So I'm going to cut to that.
Copy that going to Twitter to utilize and create another method called get very far to get.
Oh wow.
Very fine.
There we go.
And instead of him setting a variable to be what is the pin it is going to return.
What is that.
So it's going to ask the use of all the pinnies and they're going to return that value and naturally
we don't have the request token here.
Although this method is the one that gets it.
So we should pass it in as a parameter.
OK let's go back to the log in.
And now we can say remove that or the verifier can be the get or else verify which we need to import
as well.
So from two to utils get very far.
And that needs the request open so we can pass it in.
We've just got it from there.
Finally the last thing left is to create this access token to get the access token.
So let's copy all of that go back to Twitter utos
and create another method called get access token.
This also needs the request token and it also needs the oil with the verifier.
Now I'm sure you're seeing why this starts to make sense.
This file has the logic to do with Twitter interactions but not to do with users the user has logic
to do with users.
This file get request you can get or verify or get access token as you can see.
This one uses these two.
This one uses that one.
It kind of makes sense.
They are all linked.
And once that happens you can start to see things make more sense.
And here once again we can just return that.
So now what this method is doing is is using the request token to create the token that we're going
to be using for an access token setting the verifier to be what we got from this method of creating
a client with that and then using that to ask for an access token.
So now in the logon there's access to can once again can be something else.
We're going to have to import that get access to it
and to get access to needs the request token and the office verify.
And now this is a lot nicer.
It's no longer plagued with things we no longer have to import.
There's many things the consumer now lives up here which means we no longer need to import it because
we're only using it that in these methods which are all on the same file.
And now we are able to not print that out to just simply see what is happening in this code.
We are easily able to see where initializing the database asking the user for their email loading them
up and if they don't exist we are going to get a request or can get an off very file get an access token
register the user save into a database make a Twitter request and print things out.
It's really simple.
Before it was a pain.
And I'm sure you agree with me before the code is messy and unmaintainable unreadable but because we
know what's going on in that code we can fix that.
We can make it nice.
And now when somebody else comes and looks at this code they will see OK it is easy.
It didn't take much work but really what takes work is to make something that works and then make it
into something that anybody can read.
So I would encourage you to do that in your own code whenever you're writing code.
Make sure that it is maintainable readable and that anybody could understand it.
That's it for this video I'm sure I bored you to death with my rant about clean code but hopefully you
get something out of that when I see you in the very next what you